Macbeth Read the following extract from Act 3 Scene 1 of Macbeth and then answer the question that follows. At this point in the play, Macbeth is thinking of his feelings about Banquo. MACBETH To be thus is nothing, But to be safely thus. Our fears in Banquo Stick deep, and in his royalty of nature Reigns that which would be feared. ’Tis much he dares, And to that dauntless temper of his mind, He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valour To act in safety. There is none but he, Whose being I do fear; and under him My genius is rebuked, as it is said Mark Antony’s was by Caesar. He chid the sisters When first they put the name of king upon me And bade them speak to him. Then prophet-like, They hailed him father to a line of kings. Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown And put a barren sceptre in my gripe, Thence to be wrenched with an unlineal hand, No son of mine succeeding. If’t be so, For Banquo’s issue have I filed my mind; For them, the gracious Duncan have I murdered, Put rancours in the vessel of my peace Only for them, and mine eternal jewel Given to the common enemy of man, To make them kings, the seeds of Banquo kings. Rather than so, come Fate into the list, And champion me to th’utterance. Who’s there? Starting with this speech, explore how Shakespeare presents Macbeth’s fears.Write about:• how Shakespeare presents Macbeth’s fears in this speech• how Shakespeare presents Macbeth’s fears in the play as a whole.[30 marks]AO4 [4 marks]Macbeth Student Response: from June 2022 PaperIn this speech from Act 3 Scene 1 of Macbeth, Shakespeare presents Macbeth's fears through his soliloquy. Macbeth is reflecting on his feelings about Banquo and how he perceives him as a threat to his newfound power as king.Macbeth's fears are deeply rooted in Banquo's "royalty of nature" and "dauntless temper of his mind". He recognises that Banquo possesses qualities that make him fearful, such as his wisdom and bravery. Macbeth feels inferior to Banquo, stating that his "genius is rebuked" by him, comparing this feeling to how Mark Antony's genius was rebuked by Caesar. This comparison emphasises the extent of Macbeth's fear and highlights his insecurity in his own abilities as king.Furthermore, Macbeth's fears are intensified by the prophecy that the witches made about Banquo's descendants becoming kings. Macbeth laments that the witches "placed a fruitless crown" upon his head and gave him a "barren sceptre", suggesting that his reign will be short-lived and unfruitful. The idea that Banquo's sons will succeed him fills Macbeth with a sense of futility and despair, leading him to contemplate taking drastic action to secure his position as king.Throughout the play, Shakespeare presents Macbeth's fears as a driving force behind his actions. Macbeth's fear of losing power and being exposed as Duncan's murderer leads him to commit further atrocities, such as ordering the murders of Banquo and Macduff's family. His fears consume him, causing him to become increasingly paranoid and unstable.In Act 5, Macbeth's fears reach a climax as he faces the consequences of his actions. He becomes reckless and delusional, believing himself to be invincible. However, his fears are realised when Macduff, who was "not of woman born", defeats him in battle, fulfilling the witches' prophecy and bringing about Macbeth's downfall.In conclusion, Shakespeare presents Macbeth's fears as a complex and destructive force that ultimately leads to his tragic demise. Through the use of soliloquy, imagery, and foreshadowing, Shakespeare skilfully portrays the psychological turmoil that Macbeth experiences as a result of his fears, making him a compelling and multi-faceted character.